哈利·波特与魔法石
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
第一章
CHAPTER ONE
一个住在。。。的男孩
THE BOY WHO LIVED
排名第四的Privet Drive的Dursley夫妇很自豪地说他们很正常，非常感谢。
Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much.
他们是您最后希望参与到任何奇怪或神秘事物中的人，因为他们只是不拘泥于这种胡言乱语。
They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
Dursley先生是一家名为Grunnings的公司的董事，该公司进行演习。
Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills.
他是个又大又健壮的男人，几乎没有脖子，尽管他的确留着很大的胡须。 
He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache.
Dursley太太又瘦又金发，脖子的长度几乎是平时的两倍，这非常有用，因为她花了很多时间在花园围栏上爬行，监视邻居。
Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors.
达斯利一家有一个叫达德利的小儿子，在他们看来，哪里都没有更好的男孩。
The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
达斯利一家拥有他们想要的一切，但他们也有一个秘密，他们最大的恐惧是有人会发现它。
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.
他们认为，如果有人找到有关陶工的知识，他们将无法承受。
They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters.
波特夫人是达斯利太太的姐姐，但是他们好几年没有见面了;
Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years;
实际上，达斯利夫人假装她没有姐姐，因为她的妹妹和她的无用丈夫尽可能地没有杜尔斯利风情。
in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be.
德斯利一家颤抖着，想着如果陶艺家到达街上，邻居们会怎么说。
The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the street.
德斯利一家知道陶艺家也有一个小儿子，但他们甚至从未见过他。
The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him.
这个男孩是让陶艺家远离的另一个好理由。
This boy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away;
他们不希望达德利和那样的孩子混在一起。
they didn't want Dudley mixing with a child like that.
当达斯利夫妇在沉闷的灰色星期二醒来时，我们的故事开始了，外面的多云的天空没有任何迹象表明在全国各地即将发生奇怪和神秘的事情。
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country.
达斯利先生挑起工作中最无聊的领带时嗡嗡作响，当达斯利夫人将尖叫的达德利摔入高脚椅时，她高兴地闲聊。
Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
他们没有一个注意到大黄褐色的猫头鹰从窗户上扑过去。
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
八点半，达斯利先生拿起他的公文包，啄着达斯利夫人的脸颊，试图吻达德利再见，但错过了，因为达德利现在发脾气并将麦片扔在墙上。 
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
“小泰克。”达斯利先生离开家时cho住了。
Little tyke, chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house.
他上了车，退出了第四名的驾驶。
He got into his car and backed out of number four's drive.
在大街的拐角处，他注意到了某种奇怪的东西的第一个迹象-一只猫在看地图。
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar -- a cat reading a map.
有一秒钟，杜思礼先生没有意识到自己所看到的一切-然后他摇了摇头，再次看了一眼。
For a second, Mr. Dursley didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around to look again.
在女贞路的拐角处有一只虎斑猫，但看不到地图。
There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight.
他会一直在想什么？
What could he have been thinking of?
这一定是光明的把戏。
It must have been a trick of the light.
杜思礼先生眨眨眼，盯着那只猫。
Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat.
它凝视了回去。
It stared back.
达斯利先生在拐角处开车上路时，他看着镜子里的那只猫。
As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror.
现在正在看的是写着女贞路的招牌-不，看着招牌。
It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign;
猫看不懂地图或标志。
cats couldn't read maps or signs.
达斯利先生稍稍摇了摇，把那只猫弄丢了。
Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind.
当他开车去镇上时，除了希望他那天能完成的大量演习外，他什么也没想到。
As he drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
但是在城镇边缘，其他原因驱使他钻研了头脑。
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something else.
当他坐在通常的早晨交通拥堵中时，他不禁注意到似乎有很多穿着奇怪的人。
As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn't help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about.
穿着斗篷的人。 
People in cloaks.
Dursley先生不能忍受穿着有趣衣服的人-您在年轻人身上看到的东西！
Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in funny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people!
他认为这是一种愚蠢的新时尚。
He supposed this was some stupid new fashion.
他把手指鼓在方向盘上，目光投向了一群怪兽，它们离得很近。
He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.
他们在一起兴奋地窃窃私语。
They were whispering excitedly together.
达斯利先生很生气，发现其中几个还不年轻。
Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all;
为什么，那个男人必须比他大，并且穿着一件翠绿色的斗篷！
why, that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak!
他的神经！
The nerve of him!
但是后来让杜思礼先生感到震惊的是，这可能是一些愚蠢的these头-这些人显然是在收集东西……是的，就是这样。
But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something... yes, that would be it.
交通继续前进，几分钟后，达斯利先生到达了格林宁斯停车场，他的脑海又回到了演习上。
The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
达斯利先生总是背对着坐在第九层办公室的窗户。
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor.
如果没有，他可能会发现早上更加难以集中精力进行演习。
If he hadn't, he might have found it harder to concentrate on drills that morning.
他没有看到猫头鹰在光天化日之下飞奔而过，尽管街上的人们确实看到了。
He didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did;
猫头鹰飞过头顶后，他们像猫头鹰一样瞪着嘴。
they pointed and gazed open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead.
他们中的大多数人甚至在夜间都从未见过猫头鹰。
Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime.
但是，达斯利先生的早晨非常正常，没有猫头鹰。
Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning.
他对五个不同的人大吼大叫。
He yelled at five different people.
他打了几个重要的电话，然后大声喊了几声。
He made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more.
直到午餐时间，他一直心情很好，当时他以为自己会伸腿，走过马路，从面包店里买一个面包。
He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he'd stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
他忘了披着斗篷的人，直到他在面包师傅旁边经过一群人为止。
He'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of them next to the baker's.
他路过时，他愤怒地看着他们。
He eyed them angrily as he passed.
他不知道为什么，但是他们让他不安。
He didn't know why, but they made him uneasy.
这群人也兴奋地窃窃私语，他看不到一个收集罐头。
This bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collecting tin.
就是在他经过他们的路上，手拿一个大甜甜圈装在一个袋子里时，他听了他们所说的话。
It was on his way back past them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were saying.
“陶艺家，没错，那是我听到的，他们的儿子哈里”
The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their son, Harry
杜思礼先生死了。
Mr. Dursley stopped dead.
恐惧淹没了他。
Fear flooded him.
他回头看着那些低语者，好像他想对他们说些什么，但考虑得更好。
He looked back at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better of it.
他冲到马路对面，匆匆赶到办公室，猛冲他的秘书不要打扰他，抓住了他的电话，当他改变主意时几乎已经拨完了他的家庭电话。
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished dialing his home number when he changed his mind.
他放下接收器，抚摸着胡子，想着……不，他很愚蠢。
He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking... no, he was being stupid.
波特并不是一个不寻常的名字。
Potter wasn't such an unusual name.
他确定有很多人叫波特，还有一个叫哈利的儿子。
He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry.
想一想，他甚至不确定他的侄子叫哈利。
Come to think of it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry.
他甚至从未见过这个男孩。
He'd never even seen the boy.
可能是哈维。
It might have been Harvey.
或哈罗德。
Or Harold.
杜尔斯利太太没有必要担心。
There was no point in worrying Mrs. Dursley;
一提起姐姐，她总是很难过。
she always got so upset at any mention of her sister.
他没有责怪她-如果他有一个那样的姐姐...但同样的，那些披着斗篷的人...
He didn't blame her -- if he'd had a sister like that... but all the same, those people in cloaks...
他发现下午集中精力进行演习变得困难得多，当他五点钟离开大楼时，他仍然非常担心，以至于他径直走进门外的某个人。
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when he left the building at five o'clock, he was still so worried that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
“抱歉，”他咕the道，小小的老人跌跌撞撞，差点跌倒。
Sorry, he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell.
几秒钟之后，杜思礼先生才意识到那人穿着一件紫罗兰色的斗篷。
It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet cloak.
他似乎几乎没有被撞倒在地的烦恼。
He didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground.
相反，他的脸露出灿烂的笑容，他发出刺耳的声音，使路人凝视，“亲爱的先生，请不要抱歉，今天没有任何事会让我感到不适！为您所知道的人而高兴
On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, Don't be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has
终于消失了！即使像你这样的麻瓜也要庆祝，这快乐，快乐的一天！”
gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!
老人抱住了杜斯利先生，中间走了过去。
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off.
达斯利先生站在那里。
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot.
他被一个完全陌生的人拥抱。
He had been hugged by a complete stranger.
他还以为自己被称为麻瓜，不管那是什么。
He also thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that was.
他感到不安。
He was rattled.
他急忙开车去回家，希望他能想象出以前从未希望过的事情，因为他不喜欢想象。
He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had never hoped before, because he didn't approve of imagination.
当他驶入四号车道时，他看到的第一件事-并没有改善他的情绪-是那天早上发现的虎斑猫。
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw -- and it didn't improve his mood -- was the tabby cat he'd spotted that morning.
现在它正坐在他花园的墙上。
It was now sitting on his garden wall.
他确定那是同一个人。
He was sure it was the same one;
它的眼睛周围有相同的标记。
it had the same markings around its eyes.
“嘘！”
Shoo!
杜思礼先生大声说。
said Mr. Dursley loudly.
猫没有动。
The cat didn't move.
它只是给了他一副严厉的表情。
It just gave him a stern look.
这是正常的猫咪行为吗？
Was this normal cat behavior?
杜斯利先生想知道。
Mr. Dursley wondered.
为了使自己团结起来，他让自己走进了房子。
Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into the house.
他仍然决心不向妻子提任何东西。
He was still determined not to mention anything to his wife.
达斯利夫人过得很正常。
Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day.
她在晚餐时把所有关于隔壁太太与女儿的问题以及达德利如何学到一个新词（“不会！”）都告诉了他。
She told him over dinner all about Mrs. Next Door's problems with her daughter and how Dudley had learned a new word (Won't!).
达斯利先生试图采取正常行动。
Mr. Dursley tried to act normally.
当达德利上床睡觉后，他及时进入客厅，以获取晚间新闻的最新报道：
When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news:

