She nodded, blushing to the roots of her flaming hair, and put her elbow in the butter dish. Fortunately no one saw this except Harry, because just then Ron's elder brother Percy walked in. He was already dressed, his Hogwarts prefect badge pinned to his sweater vest.

¡°Morning, all,¡± said Percy briskly. ¡°Lovely day.¡±

He sat down in the only remaining chair but leapt up again almost immediately, pulling from underneath him a molting, gray feather duster - at least, that was what Harry thought it was, until he saw that it was breathing.

¡°Errol!¡± said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting a letter from under its wing. ¡± Finally - he's got Hermione's answer. I wrote to her saying we were going to try and rescue you from the Dursleys.¡±

He carried Errol to a perch just inside the back door and tried to stand him on it, but Errol flopped straight off again so Ron lay him on the draining board instead, muttering, ¡°Pathetic.¡± Then he ripped open Hermione's letter and read it out loud:

¡°`Dear Ron, and Harry if you're there,

¡°`I hope everything went all right and that Harry is okay and that you didn't do anything illegal to get him out, Ron, because that would get Harry into trouble, too. I've been really worried and if Harry is all right, will you please let me know at once, but perhaps it would be better if you used a different owl because I think another delivery might finish your one off.

¡°I'm very busy with schoolwork, of course¡¯- How can she be?¡± said Ron in horror. ¡°We're on vacation! - and we're going to London next Wednesday to buy my new books. Why don't we meet in Diagon Alley?

¡°Let me know what's happening as soon as you can. Love from Hermione.'¡±

¡°Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then, too,¡± said Mrs. Weasley, starting to clear the table. ¡°What're you all up to today?¡±

Harry, Ron, Fred, and George were planning to go up the hill to a small paddock the Weasleys owned. It was surrounded by trees that blocked it from view of the village below, meaning that they could practice Quidditch there, as long as they didn't fly too high.

They couldn't use real Quidditch balls, which would have been hard to explain if they had escaped and flown away over the village; instead they threw apples for one another to catch. They took turns riding Harry's Nimbus Two Thousand, which was easily the best broom; Ron's old Shooting Star was often outstripped by passing butterflies.

Five minutes later they were marching up the hill, broomsticks over their shoulders. They had asked Percy if he wanted to join them, but he had said he was busy. Harry had only seen Percy at mealtimes so far; he stayed shut in his room the rest of the time.

¡°Wish I knew what he was up to,¡± said Fred, frowning. ¡°He's not himself. His exam results came the day before you did; twelve O.W.L.s and he hardly gloated at all.¡±

¡°Ordinary Wizarding Levels,¡± George explained, seeing Harry's puzzled look. ¡°Bill got twelve, too. If we're not careful, we'll have another Head Boy in the family. I don't think I could stand the shame.¡±

Bill was the oldest Weasley brother. He and the next brother, Charlie, had already left Hogwarts. Harry had never met either of them, but knew that Charlie was in Romania studying dragons and Bill in Egypt working for the wizard's bank, Gringotts.

¡°Dunno how Mum and Dad are going to afford all our school stuff this year,¡± said George after a while. ¡°Five sets of Lockhart books! And Ginny needs robes and a wand and everything¡­¡±

Harry said nothing. He felt a bit awkward. Stored in an underground vault at Gringotts in London was a small fortune that his parents had left him. Of course, it was only in the wizarding world that he had money; you couldn't use Galleons, Sickles, and Knuts in Muggle shops. He had never mentioned his Gringotts bank account to the Dursleys; he didn't think their horror of anything connected with magic would stretch to a large pile of gold.

Mrs. Weasley woke them all early the following Wednesday. After a quick half a dozen bacon sandwiches each, they pulled on their coats and Mrs. Weasley took a flowerpot off the kitchen mantelpiece and peered inside.

¡°We're running low, Arthur,¡± she sighed. ¡°We'll have to buy some more today¡­ Ah well, guests first! After you, Harry dear!¡±

And she offered him the flowerpot.

Harry stared at them all watching him.

¡°W-what am I supposed to do?¡± he stammered.

¡°He's never traveled by Floo powder,¡± said Ron suddenly. ¡°Sorry, Harry, I forgot.¡±

¡°Never?¡± said Mr. Weasley. ¡°But how did you get to Diagon Alley to buy your school things last year?¡±

¡°I went on the Underground¡ª¡±

¡°Really?¡± said Mr. Weasley eagerly. ¡°Were there escapators ? How exactly¡ª¡±

¡°Not now , Arthur,¡± said Mrs. Weasley. ¡°Floo powder's a lot quicker, dear, but goodness me, if you've never used it before¡ª¡±

¡°He'll be all right, Mum,¡± said Fred. ¡°Harry, watch us first.¡±

He took a pinch of glittering powder out of the flowerpot, stepped up to the fire, and threw the powder into the flames.

With a roar, the fire turned emerald green and rose higher than Fred, who stepped right into it, shouted, ¡°Diagon Alley!¡± and vanished.

¡°You must speak clearly, dear,¡± Mrs. Weasley told Harry as George dipped his hand into the flowerpot. ¡°And be sure to get out at the right grate¡­¡±

¡°The right what?¡± said Harry nervously as the fire roared and whipped George out of sight, too.

¡°Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you know, but as long as you've spoken clearly¡ª¡±

¡°He'll be fine, Molly, don't fuss,¡± said Mr. Weasley, helping himself to Floo powder too.

¡°But, dear, if he got lost, how would we ever explain to his aunt and uncle?¡±

¡°They wouldn't mind,¡± Harry reassured her. ¡°Dudley would think it was a brilliant joke if I got lost up a chimney, don't worry about that¡ª¡±

¡°Well¡­ all right¡­ you go after Arthur,¡± said Mrs. Weasley. ¡°Now, when you get into the fire, say where you're going.¡±

¡°And keep your elbows tucked in,¡± Ron advised.

¡°And your eyes shut,¡± said Mrs. Weasley. ¡°The soot¡ª¡±

¡°Don't fidget,¡± said Ron. ¡°Or you might well fall out of the wrong fireplace¡ª¡±

¡°But don't panic and get out too early; wait until you see Fred and George.¡±

Trying hard to bear all this in mind, Harry took a pinch of Floo powder and walked to the edge of the fire. He took a deep breath, scattered the powder into the flames, and stepped forward; the fire felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and immediately swallowed a lot of hot ash.

¡°D-Dia-gon Alley,¡± he coughed.

It felt as though he was being sucked down a giant drain. He seemed to be spinning very fast - the roaring in his ears was deafening - he tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green flames made him feel sick -something hard knocked his elbow and he tucked it in tightly, still spinning and spinning - now it felt as though cold hands were slapping his face - squinting through his glasses he saw a blurred stream of fireplaces and snatched glimpses of the rooms beyond - his bacon sandwiches were churning inside him - he closed his eyes again wishing it would stop, and then¡­

He fell, face forward, onto cold stone and felt the bridge of his glasses snap.

Dizzy and bruised, covered in soot, he got gingerly to his feet, holding his broken glasses up to his eyes. He was quite alone, but where he was, he had no idea. All he could tell was that he was standing in the stone fireplace of what looked like a large, dimly lit wizard's shop - but nothing in here was ever likely to be on a Hogwarts school list.

A glass case nearby held a withered hand on a cushion, a bloodstained pack of cards, and a staring glass eye. Evil-looking masks stared down from the walls, an assortment of human bones lay upon the counter, and rusty, spiked instruments hung from the ceiling. Even worse, the dark, narrow street Harry could see through the dusty shop window was definitely not Diagon Alley.

The sooner he got out of here, the better. Nose still stinging where it had hit the hearth, Harry made his way swiftly and silently toward the door, but before he'd got halfway toward it, two people appeared on the other side of the glass - and one of them was the very last person Harry wanted to meet when he was lost, covered in soot, and wearing broken glasses: Draco Malfoy.

Harry looked quickly around and spotted a large black cabinet to his left; he shot inside it and pulled the doors closed, leaving a small crack to peer through. Seconds later, a bell clanged, and Malfoy stepped into the shop.

The man who followed could only be Draco's father. He had the same pale, pointed face and identical cold, gray eyes. Mr. Malfoy crossed the shop, looking lazily at the items on display, and rang a bell on the counter before turning to his son and saying, ¡°Touch nothing, Draco.¡±

Malfoy, who had reached for the glass eye, said, ¡°I thought you were going to buy me a present.¡±

¡°I said I would buy you a racing broom,¡± said his father, drumming his fingers on the counter.

¡°What's the good of that if I'm not on the House team?¡± said Malfoy, looking sulky and bad-tempered. ¡°Harry Potter got a Nimbus Two Thousand last year. Special permission from Dumbledore so he could play for Gryffindor. He's not even that good, it's just because he's famous¡­ famous for having a stupid scar on his forehead¡­¡±

Malfoy bent down to examine a shelf full of skulls.

¡°¡­everyone thinks he's so smart, wonderful Potter with his scar and his broomstick¡ª¡±

¡°You have told me this at least a dozen times already,¡± said Mr. Malfoy, with a quelling look at his son. ¡°And I would remind you that it is not - prudent - to appear less than fond of Harry Potter, not when most of our kind regard him as the hero who made the Dark Lord disappear - ah, Mr. Borgin.¡±

A stooping man had appeared behind the counter, smoothing his greasy hair back from his face.

¡°Mr. Malfoy, what a pleasure to see you again,¡± said Mr. Borgin in a voice as oily as his hair. ¡°Delighted - and young Master Malfoy, too - charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you, just in today, and very reasonably priced¡ª¡±

