¡°So Hermione's okay!¡± said Ron brightly.

¡°There has been no lasting harm done, Ginny,¡± said Dumbledore.

Mrs. Weasley led Ginny out, and Mr. Weasley followed, still looking deeply shaken.

¡°You know, Minerva,¡± Professor Dumbledore said thoughtfully to Professor McGonagall, ¡°I think all this merits a good feast. Might I ask you to go and alert the kitchens?¡±

¡°Right,¡± said Professor McGonagall crisply, also moving to the door. ¡°I'll leave you to deal with Potter and Weasley, shall I?¡±

¡°Certainly,¡± said Dumbledore.

She left, and Harry and Ron gazed uncertainly at Dumbledore. What exactly had Professor McGonagall meant, deal with them? Surely - surely - they weren't about to be punished?

¡°I seem to remember telling you both that I would have to expel you if you broke any more school rules, said Dumbledore.

Ron opened his mouth in horror.

¡°Which goes to show that the best of us must sometimes eat our words,¡± Dumbledore went on, smiling. ¡°You will both receive Special Awards for Services to the School and - let me see - yes, I think two hundred points apiece for Gryffindor.¡±

Ron went as brightly pink as Lockhart's valentine flowers and closed his mouth again.

¡°But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet about his part in this dangerous adventure,¡± Dumbledore added. ¡°Why so modest, Gilderoy?¡±

Harry gave a start. He had completely forgotten about Lockhart. He turned and saw that Lockhart was standing in a corner of the room, still wearing his vague smile. When Dumbledore addressed him, Lockhart looked over his shoulder to see who he was talking to.

¡°Professor Dumbledore,¡± Ron said quickly, ¡°there was an accident down in the Chamber of Secrets. Professor Lockhart¡ª¡±

¡°Am I a professor?¡± said Lockhart in mild surprise. ¡°Goodness. I expect I was hopeless, was I?¡±

¡°He tried to do a Memory Charm and the wand backfired,¡± Ron explained quietly to Dumbledore.

¡°Dear me,¡± said Dumbledore, shaking his head, his long silver mustache quivering. ¡°Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy!¡±

¡°Sword?¡± said Lockhart dimly. ¡°Haven't got a sword. That boy has, though.¡± He pointed at Harry. ¡°He'll lend you one.¡±

¡°Would you mind taking Professor Lockhart up to the infirmary, too?¡± Dumbledore said to Ron. ¡°I'd like a few more words with Harry¡­¡±

Lockhart ambled out. Ron cast a curious look back at Dumbledore and Harry as he closed the door.

Dumbledore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire.

¡°Sit down, Harry,¡± he said, and Harry sat, feeling unaccountably nervous.

¡°First of all, Harry, I want to thank you,¡± said Dumbledore, eyes twinkling again. ¡°You must have shown me real loyalty down in the Chamber. Nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you.¡±

He stroked the phoenix, which had fluttered down onto his knee. Harry grinned awkwardly as Dumbledore watched him.

¡°And so you met Tom Riddle,¡± said Dumbledore thoughtfully. ¡°I imagine he was most interested in you¡­¡±

Suddenly, something that was nagging at Harry came tumbling out of his mouth.

¡°Professor Dumbledore¡­ Riddle said I'm like him. Strange likenesses, he said¡­

¡°Did he, now?¡± said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully at Harry from under his thick silver eyebrows. ¡°And what do you think, Harry?¡±

¡°I don't think I'm like him!¡± said Harry, more loudly than he'd intended. ¡°I mean, I'm - I'm in Gryffindor, I'm¡­¡±

But he fell silent, a lurking doubt resurfacing in his mind.

¡°Professor,¡± he started again after a moment. ¡°The Sorting Hat told me I'd - I'd have done well in Slytherin. Everyone thought I was Slytherin's heir for a while¡­ because I can speak Parseltongue ¡­¡±

¡°You can speak Parseltongue, Harry,¡± said Dumbledore calmly, ¡°because Lord Voldemort - who is the last remaining ancestor of Salazar Slytherin - can speak Parseltongue. Unless I'm much mistaken, he transferred some of his own powers to you the night he gave you that scar. Not something he intended to do, I'm sure¡­¡±

¡°Voldemort put a bit of himself in me?¡± Harry said, thunderstruck.

¡°It certainly seems so.¡±

¡°So I should be in Slytherin,¡± Harry said, looking desperately into Dumbledore's face. ¡°The Sorting Hat could see Slytherin's power in me, and it¡ª¡±

¡°Put you in Gryffindor,¡± said Dumbledore calmly. ¡°Listen to me, Harry. You happen to have many qualities Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand-picked students. His own very rare gift, Parseltongue - resourcefulness - determination - a certain disregard for rules,¡± he added, his mustache quivering again. ¡°Yet the Sorting Hat placed you in Gryffindor. You know why that was. Think.¡±

¡°It only put me in Gryffindor,¡± said Harry in a defeated voice, ¡°because I asked not to go in Slytherin¡­¡±

`Exactly, ¡°said Dumbledore, beaming once more. ¡°Which makes you very different from Tom Riddle. It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.¡± Harry sat motionless in his chair, stunned. ¡°If you want proof, Harry, that you belong in Gryffindor, I suggest you look more closely at this.¡±

Dumbledore reached across to Professor McGonagall's desk, picked up the blood-stained silver sword, and handed it to Harry. Dully, Harry turned it over, the rubies blazing in the firelight. And then he saw the name engraved just below the hilt.

Godric Gryffindor

¡°Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the hat, Harry,¡± said Dumbledore simply.

For a minute, neither of them spoke. Then Dumbledore pulled open one of the drawers in Professor McGonagall's desk and took out a quill and a bottle of ink.

¡°What you need, Harry, is some food and sleep. I suggest you go down to the feast, while I write to Azkaban -we need our gamekeeper back. And I must draft an advertisement for the Daily Prophet, too,¡± he added Thoughtfully. ¡°We'll be needing a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher¡­ Dear me, we do seem to run through them, don't we?¡±

Harry got up and crossed to the door. He had just reached for the handle, however, when the door burst open so violently that it bounced back off the wall.

Lucius Malfoy stood there, fury in his face. And cowering behind his legs, heavily wrapped in bandages, was Dobby.

¡°Good evening, Lucius,¡± said Dumbledore pleasantly.

Mr. Malfoy almost knocked Harry over as he swept into the room. Dobby went scurrying in after him, crouching at the hem of his cloak, a look of abject terror on his face.

The elf was carrying a stained rag with which he was attempting to finish cleaning Mr. Malfoys shoes. Apparently Mr. Malfoy had set out in a great hurry, for not only were his shoes half-polished, but his usually sleek hair was disheveled. Ignoring the elf bobbing apologetically around his ankles, he fixed his cold eyes upon Dumbledore.

¡°So!¡± he said ¡°You've come back. The governors suspended you, but you still saw fit to return to Hogwarts.¡±

¡°Well, you see, Lucius,¡± said Dumbledore, smiling serenely, ¡°the other eleven governors contacted me today. It was something like being caught in a hailstorm of owls, to tell the truth. They'd heard that Arthur Weasleys daughter had been killed and wanted me back here at once. They seemed to think I was the best man for the job after all. Very strange tales they told me, too¡­ Several of them seemed to think that you had threatened to curse their families if they didn't agree to suspend me in the first place.¡±

Mr. Malfoy went even paler than usual, but his eyes were still slits of fury.

¡°So - have you stopped the attacks yet?¡± he sneered. ¡°Have you caught the culprit?¡±

¡°We have,¡± said Dumbledore, with a smile.

¡°Well?¡± said Mr. Malfoy sharply. ¡°Who is it?¡±

¡°The same person as last time, Lucius,¡± said Dumbledore. ¡°But this time, Lord Voldemort was acting through somebody else. By means of this diary.¡±

He held up the small black book with the large hole through the center, watching Mr. Malfoy closely. Harry, however, was watching Dobby.

The elf was doing something very odd. His great eyes fixed meaningfully on Harry, he kept pointing at the diary, then at Mr. Malfoy, and then hitting himself hard on the head with his fist.

¡°I see¡­¡± said Mr. Malfoy slowly to Dumbledore.

¡°A clever plan,¡± said Dumbledore in a level voice, still staring Mr. Malfoy straight in the eye. ¡°Because if Harry here -¡± Mr. Malfoy shot Harry a swift, sharp look ¡°and his friend Ron hadn't discovered this book, why -- Ginny Weasley might have taken all the blame. No one would ever have been able to prove she hadn't acted of her own free will¡­¡±

Mr. Malfoy said nothing. His face was suddenly masklike.

¡°And imagine,¡± Dumbledore went on, ¡°what might have happened then¡­ The Weasleys are one of our most prominent pure-blood families. Imagine the effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle Protection Act, if his own daughter was discovered attacking and - killing Muggle-borns¡­ Very fortunate the diary was discovered, and Riddle's memories wiped from it. Who knows what the consequences might have been otherwise¡­¡±

Mr. Malfoy forced himself to speak.

¡°Very fortunate,¡± he said stiffly.

And still, behind his back, Dobby was pointing, first to the diary, then to Lucius Malfoy, then punching himself in the head.

And Harry suddenly understood. He nodded at Dobby, and Dobby backed into a corner, now twisting his ears in punishment.

¡°Don't you want to know how Ginny got hold of that diary, Mr. Malfoy?¡± said Harry.

Lucius Malfoy rounded on him.

¡°How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold of it?¡± he said.

¡°Because you gave it to her,¡± said Harry. ¡°In Flourish and Blotts. You picked up her old Transfiguration book and slipped the diary inside it, didn't you?¡±

He saw Mr. Malfoy's white hands clench and unclench.

¡°Prove it,¡± he hissed.

¡°Oh, no one will be able to do that,¡± said Dumbledore, smiling at Harry. ¡°Not now that Riddle has vanished from the book. On the other hand, I would advise you, Lucius, not to go giving out any more of Lord Voldemort's old school things. If any more of them find their way into innocent hands, I think Arthur Weasley, for one, will make sure they are traced back to you¡­¡±

