And ignoring the large OUT of ORDER sign, she opened the door.

It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry had ever set foot in. Under a large, cracked, and spotted mirror were a row of chipped sinks. The floor was damp and reflected the dull light given off by the stubs of a few candles, burning low in their holders; the wooden doors to the stalls were flaking and scratched and one of them was dangling off its hinges.

Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off toward the end stall. When she reached it she said, ¡°Hello, Myrtle, how are you?¡±

Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was floating above the tank of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin.

¡°This is a girls

bathroom,¡± she said, eyeing Ron and Harry suspiciously. ¡± They're not girls.¡±

¡°No,¡± Hermione agreed. ¡°I just wanted to show them how er - nice it is in here.¡±

She waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the damp floor.

¡°Ask her if she saw anything,¡± Harry mouthed at Hermione.

¡°What are you whispering?¡± said Myrtle, staring at him.

¡°Nothing,¡± said Harry quickly. ¡°We wanted to ask¡ª¡±

¡°I wish people would stop talking behind my back!¡± said Myrtle, in a voice choked with tears. ¡°I do have feelings, you know, even if I am dead¡ª¡±

¡°Myrtle, no one wants to upset you,¡± said Hermione. ¡°Harry only¡ª¡±

¡°No one wants to upset me! That's a good one!¡± howled Myrtle. ¡°My life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come along ruining my death!¡±

¡°We wanted to ask you if you've seen anything funny lately,¡± said Hermione quickly. ¡°Because a cat was attacked right outside your front door on Halloween.¡±

¡°Did you see anyone near here that night?¡± said Harry.

¡°I wasn't paying attention,¡± said Myrtle dramatically. ¡°Peeves upset me so much I came in here and tried to kill myself. Then, of course, I remembered that I'm - that I'm¡ª¡±

¡°Already dead,¡± said Ron helpfully.

Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over, and dived headfirst into the toilet, splashing water all over them and vanishing from sight, although from the direction of her muffled sobs, she had come to rest somewhere in the U-bend.

Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione shrugged wearily and said, ¡°Honestly, that was almost cheerful for Myrtle¡­ Come on, let's go.¡±

Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtle's gurgling sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump.

¡°RON!¡±

Percy Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the stairs, prefect badge agleam, an expression of complete shock on his face.

¡°That's a girls

bathroom!¡± he gasped. ¡°What were you -?¡±

¡°Just having a look around,¡± Ron shrugged. ¡°Clues, you know¡ª¡±

Percy swelled in a manner that reminded Harry forcefully of Mrs. Weasley.

¡°Get - away - from - there -¡± Perry said, striding toward them and starting to bustle them along, flapping his arms. ¡°Don't you care what this looks like? Coming back here while everyone's at dinner¡ª¡±

¡°Why shouldn't we be here?¡± said Ron hotly, stopping short and glaring at Percy. ¡°Listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!¡±

¡°That's what I told Ginny,¡± said Percy fiercely, ¡°but she still seems to think you're going to be expelled, I've never seen her so upset, crying her eyes out, you might think of her , all the first years are thoroughly overexcited by this business¡ª¡±

¡°You don't care about Ginny,¡± said Ron, whose ears were now reddening. ¡± You're just worried I'm going to mess up your chances of being Head Boy¡ª¡±

¡°Five points from Gryffindor!¡± Percy said tersely, fingering his prefect badge. ¡°And I hope it teaches you a lesson! No more detective work , or I'll write to Mum!¡±

And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as Ron's ears.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as possible from Percy in the common room that night. Ron was still in a very bad temper and kept blotting his Charms homework. When he reached absently for his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parchment. Fuming almost as much as his homework, Ron slammed The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 shut. To Harry's surprise, Hermione followed suit.

¡°Who can it be, though?¡± she said in a quiet voice, as though continuing a conversation they had just been having. ¡°Who'd want to frighten all the Squibs and Muggle-borns out of Hogwart's?¡±

¡°Let's think,¡± said Ron in mock puzzlement. ¡°Who do we know who thinks Muggle-borns are scum?¡±

He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, unconvinced.

¡°If you're talking about Malfoy¡ª¡±

¡°Of course I am!¡± said Ron. ¡°You heard him - You'll be next, Mudbloods!¡¯- come on, you've only got to look at his foul rat face to know it's him¡ª¡±

¡°Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin?¡± said Hermione skeptically.

¡°Look at his family,¡± said Harry, closing his books, too. ¡°The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin; he's always boasting about it. They could easily be Slytherin's descendants. His father's definitely evil enough.¡±

¡°They could've had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for centuries!¡± said Ron. ¡°Handing it down, father to son ¡­¡±

¡°Well,¡± said Hermione cautiously, ¡°I suppose it's possible¡­¡±

¡°But how do we prove it?¡± said Harry darkly.

¡°There might be a way,¡± said Hermione slowly, dropping her voice still further with a quick glance across the room at Percy. ¡°Of course, it would be difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We'd be breaking about fifty school rules, I expect¡ª¡±

¡°If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us know, won't you?¡± said Ron irritably.

¡°All right,¡± said Hermione coldly. ¡°What we'd need to do is to get inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few questions without him realizing it's us.¡±

¡°But that's impossible,¡± Harry said as Ron laughed.

¡°No, it's not,¡± said Hermione. ¡°All we'd need would be some Polyjuice Potion.¡±

¡°What's that?¡± said Ron and Harry together.

¡°Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago¡ª¡±

¡°D'you think we've got nothing better to do in Potions than listen to Snape?¡± muttered Ron.

¡°It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! We could change into three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us. Malfoy would probably tell us anything. He's probably boasting about it in the Slytherin common room right now, if only we could hear him.¡±

¡°This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,¡± said Ron, frowning. ¡°What if we were stuck looking like three of the Slytherins forever?¡±

¡°It wears off after a while,¡± said Hermione, waving her hand impatiently. ¡°But getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult. Snape said it was in a book called Moste Potente Potions and it's bound to be in the Restricted Section of the library.¡± There was only one way to get out a book from the Restricted Section: You needed a signed note of permission from a teacher. ¡°Hard to see why we'd want the book, really,¡± said Ron, ¡°if we weren't going to try and make one of the potions.¡± ¡°I think,¡± said Hermione, ¡°that if we made it sound as though we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance¡­

¡°Oh, come on, no teacher's going to fall for that,¡± said Ron. ¡°They'd have to be really thick¡­¡±
 


 J.K. Rowling

Harry Potter
&
The Chamber of Secrets
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Chapter Ten     The Rogue Bludger

Since the disastrous episode of the pixies, Professor Lockhart had not brought live creatures to class. Instead, he read passages from his books to them, and sometimes reenacted some of the more dramatic bits. He usually picked Harry to help him with these reconstructions; so far, Harry had been forced to play a simple Transylvanian villager whom Lockhart had cured of a Babbling Curse, a yeti with a head cold, and a vampire who had been unable to eat anything except lettuce since Lockhart had dealt with him.

Harry was hauled to the front of the class during their very next Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson, this time acting a werewolf. If he hadn't had a very good reason for keeping Lockhart in a good mood, he would have refused to do it.

¡°Nice loud howl, Harry - exactly - and then, if you'll believe it, I pounced - like this - slammed him to the floor - thus with one hand, I managed to hold him down - with my other, I put my wand to his throat - I then screwed up my remaining strength and performed the immensely complex Homorphus Charm- he let out a piteous moan - go on, Harry - higher than that - good - the fur vanished - the fangs shrank - and he turned back into a man. Simple, yet effective - and another village will remember me forever as the hero who delivered them from the monthly terror of werewolf attacks.¡±

The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet.

¡°Homework - compose a poem about my defeat of the Wagga Wagga Werewolf! Signed copies of Magical Me to the author of the best one!¡±

The class began to leave. Harry returned to the back of the room, where Ron and Hermione were waiting.

¡°Ready?¡± Harry muttered.

¡°Wait till everyone's gone,¡± said Hermione nervously. ¡°All right¡­¡±

She approached Lockhart's desk, a piece of paper clutched tightly in her hand, Harry and Ron right behind her.

¡°Er - Professor Lockhart?¡± Hermione stammered. ¡°I wanted to - to get this book out of the library. Just for background reading.¡± She held out the piece of paper, her hand shaking slightly. ¡°But the thing is, it's in the Restricted Section of the library, so I need a teacher to sign for it - I'm sure it would help me understand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls about slow-acting venoms.¡±

¡°Ah, Gadding with Ghouls!¡± said Lockhart, taking the note from Hermione and smiling widely at her. ¡°Possibly my very favorite book. You enjoyed it?¡±

¡°Oh, yes,¡± said Hermione eagerly. ¡°So clever, the way you trapped that last one with the tea-strainer¡ª¡±

¡°Well, I'm sure no one will mind me giving the best student of the year a little extra help,¡± said Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out an enormous peacock quill. ¡°Yes, nice, isn't it?¡± he said, misreading the revolted look on Ron's face. ¡°I usually save it for book-signings.¡±

