They both jumped to their feet.

¡°Medicine for my stomach,¡± Ron grunted, and without further ado they sprinted the length of the Slytherin common room, hurled themselves at the stone wall, and dashed up the passage, hoping against hope that Malfoy hadn't noticed anything. Harry could feel his feet slipping around in Goyle's huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the steps into the dark entrance hall, which was full of a muffled pounding coming from the closet where they'd locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving their shoes outside the closet door, they sprinted in their socks up the marble staircase toward Moaning Myrtle's bathroom.

¡°Well, it wasn't a complete waste of time,¡± Ron panted, closing the bathroom door behind them. ¡°I know we still haven't found out who's doing the attacks, but I'm going to write to Dad tomorrow and tell him to check under the Malfoys'drawing room.¡±

Harry checked his face in the cracked mirror. He was back to normal. He put his glasses on as Ron hammered on the door of Hermione's stall.

¡°Hermione, come out, we've got loads to tell you¡ª¡±

¡°Go away!¡± Hermione squeaked.

Harry and Ron looked at each other.

¡°What's the matter?¡± said Ron. ¡°You must be back to normal by now, we are.¡±

But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall door. Harry had never seen her looking so happy.

¡°Ooooooh, wait till you see,¡± she said. ¡°It's awful¡ª¡±

They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sobbing, her robes pulled up over her head.

¡°What's up?¡± said Ron uncertainly. ¡°Have you still got Millicent's nose or something?¡±

Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the sink.

Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yellow and there were long, pointed ears poking through her hair.

¡°It was a c-cat hair!¡± she howled. ¡°M-Millicent Bulstrode m-must have a cat! And the p-potion isn't supposed to be used for animal transformations!¡±

¡°Uh-oh,¡± said Ron.

¡°You'll be teased something dreadful,¡± said Myrtle happily.

¡°It's okay, Hermione,¡± said Harry quickly. ¡°We'll take you up to the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many questions¡­¡±

It took a long time to persuade Hermione to leave the bathroom. Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way with a hearty guffaw. ¡°Wait till everyone finds out you've got a tail!¡±
 


 J.K. Rowling

Harry Potter
&
The Chamber of Secrets
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Chapter Thirteen     The Very Secret Diary

Hermione remained in the hospital wing for several weeks. There was a flurry of rumor about her disappearance when the rest of the school arrived back from their Christmas holidays, because of course everyone thought that she had been attacked. So many students filed past the hospital wing trying to catch a glimpse of her that Madam Pomfrey took out her curtains again and placed them around Hermione's bed, to spare her the shame of being seen with a furry face.

Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When the new term started, they brought her each day's homework.

¡°If I'd sprouted whiskers, I'd take a break from work,¡± said Ron, tipping a stack of books onto Hermione's bedside table one evening.

¡°Don't be silly, Ron, I've got to keep up,¡± said Hermione briskly. Her spirits were greatly improved by the fact that all the hair had gone from her face and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown. ¡°I don't suppose you've got any new leads?¡± she added in a whisper, so that Madam Pomfrey couldn't hear her.

¡°Nothing,¡± said Harry gloomily.

¡°I was so sure it was Malfoy,¡± said Ron, for about the hundredth time.

¡°What's that?¡± asked Harry, pointing to something gold sticking out from under Hermione's pillow.

¡°Just a get well card,¡± said Hermione hastily, trying to poke it out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out, flicked it open, and read aloud:

¡°To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your concerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly's Most Charming Smile Award.¡±

Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted.

¡°You sleep with this under your pillow?¡±

But Hermione was spared answering by Madam Pomfrey sweeping over with her evening dose of medicine.

¡°Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke you've ever met, or what?¡± Ron said to Harry as they left the infirmary and started up the stairs toward Gryffindor Tower.

Snape had given them so much homework, Harry thought he was likely to be in the sixth year before he finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had asked Hermione how many rat tails you were supposed to add to a Hair Raising Potion when an angry outburst from the floor above reached their ears.

¡°That's Filch,¡± Harry muttered as they hurried up the stairs and paused, out of sight, listening hard.

¡°You don't think someone else's been attacked?¡± said Ron tensely.

They stood still, their heads inclined toward Flich's voice, which sounded quite hysterical.

¡°even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I haven't got enough to do! No, this is the final straw, I'm going to Dumbledore¡ª¡±

His footsteps receded along the out-of-sight corridor and they heard a distant door slam.

They poked their heads around the corner. Filch had clearly been manning his usual lookout post: They were once again on the spot where Mrs. Norris had been attacked. They saw at a glance what Filch had been shouting about. A great flood of water stretched over half the corridor, and it looked as though it was still seeping from under the door of Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. Now that Filch had stopped shouting, they could hear Myrtle's wails echoing off the bathroom walls.

¡°Now what's up with her?¡± said Ron.

¡°Let's go and see,¡± said Harry, and holding their robes over their ankles they stepped through the great wash of water to the door bearing its OUT OF ORDER sign, ignored it as always, and entered.

Moaning Myrtle was crying, if possible, louder and harder than ever before. She seemed to be hiding down her usual toilet. It was dark in the bathroom because the candles had been extinguished in the great rush of water that had left both walls and floor soaking wet.

¡°What's up, Myrtle?¡± said Harry.

¡°Who's that?¡± glugged Myrtle miserably. ¡°Come to throw something else at me?¡±

Harry waded across to her stall and said, ¡°Why would I throw something at you?¡±

¡°Don't ask me,¡± Myrtle shouted, emerging with a wave of yet more water, which splashed onto the already sopping floor. ¡°Here I am, minding my own business, and someone thinks it's funny to throw a book at me¡­¡±

¡°But it can't hurt you if someone throws something at you,¡± said Harry, reasonably. ¡°I mean, it'd just go right through you, wouldn't it?¡±

He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up and shrieked, ¡°Let's all throw books at Myrtle, because she can't feel it! Ten points if you can get it through her stomach! Fifty points if it goes through her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a lovely game, I don't think!¡±

¡°Who threw it at you, anyway?¡± asked Harry.

¡°I don't know¡­ I was just sitting in the U-bend, thinking about death, and it fell right through the top of my head,¡± said Myrtle, glaring at them. ¡°It's over there, it got washed out¡­¡±

Harry and Ron looked under the sink where Myrtle was pointing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a shabby black cover and was as wet as everything else in the bathroom. Harry stepped forward to pick it up, but Ron suddenly flung out an arm to hold him back.

¡°What?¡± said Harry.

¡°Are you crazy?¡± said Ron. ¡°It could be dangerous.¡±

¡°Dangerous?"said Harry, laughing. ¡°Come off it, how could it be dangerous?¡±

¡°You'd be surprised,¡± said Ron, who was looking apprehensively at the book. ¡°Some of the books the Ministry's confiscated Dad's told me - there was one that burned your eyes out. And everyone who read Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you could never stop reading! You just had to wander around with your nose in it, trying to do everything one-handed. And¡ª¡±

¡°All right, I've got the point,¡± said Harry.

The little book lay on the floor, nondescript and soggy.

¡°Well, we won't find out unless we look at it,¡± he said, and he ducked around Ron and picked it up off the floor.

Harry saw at once that it was a diary, and the faded year on the cover told him it was fifty years old. He opened it eagerly. On the first page he could just make out the name ¡°T M. Riddle¡± in smudged ink.

¡°Hang on,¡± said Ron, who had approached cautiously and was looking over Harry's shoulder. ¡°I know that name¡­ T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago.¡±

¡°How on earth d'you know that?¡± said Harry in amazement.

¡°Because Filch made me polish his shield about fifty times in detention,¡± said Ron resentfully. ¡°That was the one I burped slugs all over. If you'd wiped slime off a name for an hour, you'd remember it, too.¡±

Harry peeled the wet pages apart. They were completely blank. There wasn't the faintest trace of writing on any of them, not even Auntie Mabel's birthday, or dentist, half-past three.

¡°He never wrote in it,¡± said Harry, disappointed.

¡°I wonder why someone wanted to flush it away?¡± said Ron curiously.

Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw the printed name of a variety store on Vauxhall Road, London.

¡°He must've been Muggle-born,¡± said Harry thoughtfully. ¡°To have bought a diary from Vauxhall Road¡­¡±

¡°Well, it's not much use to you,¡± said Ron. He dropped his voice. ¡°Fifty points if you can get it through Myrtle's nose.¡±

Harry, however, pocketed it.

Hermione left the hospital wing, de-whiskered, tail-less, and furfree, at the beginning of February. On her first evening back in Gryffindor Tower, Harry showed her T. M. Riddle's diary and told her the story of how they had found it.

¡°Oooh, it might have hidden powers,¡± said Hermione enthusiastically, taking the diary and looking at it closely.

